Snap Zone Documentation (#126)
Innoactive/Creator: .Documentation/articles/innoactive-creator/snapzones.md

# Snap Zones

> A snap zone is a pre-defined area determined by a trigger collider where the trainee can "snap" an interactable object by releasing it within that zone. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A snap zone is an area where the trainee can "snap" an interactable object by releasing it within it. A trigger collider defines its boundaries. Unity physics ignore trigger colliders, but trigger colliders still fire events for scripts. It allows you to put an object inside of it, and that object will set off the snap zone mechanics.
```

[![Snap Zone](../images/snap-zones/snapzone-in-action.gif "Snap Zone")](../images/snap-zones/snapzone-in-action.gif)

### Snap Zone Configuration

> By default, the trainee cannot see snap zones. However, they are visible for the training designer in the editor window as a volume. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the trainee cannot see snap zones. However, they are visible for the training designer in the editor window as a semi-transparent volume. 
```

[![Snap Zone Configuration](../images/snap-zones/snapzone.png "Snap Zone Configuration")](../images/snap-zones/snapzone.png)

#### Snap Zone Preview

> You can configure the snap zone to show a preview version (playmode only) of the desired snap object as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can set the following values to make the snap zone show a preview version of the desired snap object:
```

- **Shown Highlight Object**: A prefab that contains only the meshes of the preview object.
- **Shown Highlight Object Color**: The color that the preview object will have.

[![Snap Zone Preview](../images/snap-zones/snap-zone-preview.png "Snap Zone Preview")](../images/snapzones/snap-zone-preview.png)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You can see this object preview only in the play time, not in the editor time.

```

#### Snap Zone Validation Preview

> Additionaly, you can configure a snap zone to provide visual feedback to the trainee when hovering an object near the snap zone, it can be configured as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can provide a trainee with visual feedback when he hovers an object near the snap zones:
```

- **Validation Hover Material**: The material that the preview object will have when a valid snappable object interacts with the snap zone.

[![Snap Zone Validation Preview](../images/snap-zones/snap-zone-validation-preview.png "Snap Zone Validation Preview")](../images/snap-zones/snap-zone-validation-preview.png)

You can create a snap zone either [automatically](#automatically-setup-a-simple-snap-zone) (recommended) or [manually](#manually-setup-a-simple-snap-zone).

> ------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ## Automatically setup a simple snap zone

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setup a Simple Snap Zone Automatically
```

Also, capitalize headers properly.

### I. Snappable game object

> We need a game object that we want to snap into the snap zone. It needs to have at least one collider component. To make it snappable, we need to add the `Snappable Property` component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need a game object that we want to snap into the snap zone. It should have at least one collider component. To make it snappable, add the `Snappable Property` component to it.
```

[![Add Snappable Property](../images/snap-zones/box-snappable.png "Add Snappable Property")](../images/snap-zones/box-snappable.png)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### II. Create snap zone automatically

> To automatically create a matching snap zone, click the `Create Snap Zone` button of the `Snappable Property` in the `Inspector` window of the corresponding snappable game object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To automatically create a matching snap zone, click the `Create Snap Zone` button of the `Snappable Property` in the `Inspector` window of the corresponding snappable game object. The snap zone is generated in the same position, rotation, and with the same volume as the snappable property object.
```

[![Create Snap Zone](../images/snap-zones/automatically-create.gif "Create Snap Zone")](../images/snap-zones/automatically-create.gif)

> > The snap zone is generated in the same position, rotation, and with the same volume as the snappable property object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### III. Adjust snap zone (optional)

> You can either change the settings directly in the new snap zone object or change the default settings in the `Snap Zone Settings` window. In order to open the default snap zone settings, **go to the Unity's toolbar** and select: `Innoactive` > `Creator` > `Windows` > `Snap Zone Settings`. All changes are saved automatically, and every snap zone that will be created via the `Create Snap Zone` button afterwards will get the new settings by default.

Reviewer: The content does not fit the headline. "Modify Default Snap Zone Settings"?

[![Create Snap Zone](../images/snap-zones/change-settings.gif "Create Snap Zone")](../images/snap-zones/change-settings.gif)

> ------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Manually setup a simple snap zone

> In order to properly set up a snap zone we require 3 game objects:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need three game objects to set up a snap zone:
```

- [**Snap Zone**](#snap-zone): The object that will act as snap zone.
- [**Snappable Object**](#snappable-object): The object that we want to be snapped into the snap zone.
- [**Preview**](#preview): The object that will be shown as preview object on the snap zone (optional).

> > By default, a snap zone can interact with any interactable object, to change this behavior (for example, making a snap zone to only accept one type of object), the [`Interaction Layer Mask`](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.interaction.toolkit@0.9/api/UnityEngine.XR.Interaction.Toolkit.XRBaseInteractor.html#UnityEngine_XR_Interaction_Toolkit_XRBaseInteractor_InteractionLayerMask) must be changed in both, the snap zone and interactable object. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, a snap zone interacts with all interactable object. To change this behavior (for example, making a snap zone to only accept one type of object), the [`Interaction Layer Mask`](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.interaction.toolkit@0.9/api/UnityEngine.XR.Interaction.Toolkit.XRBaseInteractor.html#UnityEngine_XR_Interaction_Toolkit_XRBaseInteractor_InteractionLayerMask) must be changed in both, the snap zone and interactable object. 
```

### Snap zone

> 1. We need to create an empty game object. To do this, right click into the *Unity Scene Hierarchy* and select `Create Empty`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create an empty game object. To do this, right click into the *Unity Scene Hierarchy* and select `Create Empty`.
```

> 2. This empty game object requires a collider component the size that the snap zone should ultimately have. The `Is Trigger` property must be **enabled**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. This empty game object requires a collider component the size that the snap zone should ultimately have. The `Is Trigger` toggle must be checked. 
```

> 3. It needs the `Snap Zone Property` component. To add it, click on the `Add Component` button in the bottom of the *Unity Inspector*. Then type in `Snap Zone Property` and select the appearing entry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add the `Snap Zone Property` component. Click on the `Add Component` button in the bottom of the *Unity Inspector*, then type in `Snap Zone Property` and select the entry.
```

> We can now change the volume color of our snap zone by changing the `Shown Highlight Object Color`. 
> If we want to show a validation preview of the object hovering the snap zone we can make sure the `Show Interactable Hover Meshes` option is enabled. Additionally, we can also customize the appearance of the validation preview by adding a material asset to the `Interactable Hover Mesh Material`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can now change the volume color of our snap zone by changing the `Shown Highlight Object Color`. If you want to show a validation preview of the object hovering the snap zone you should enable the `Show Interactable Hover Meshes` option. Additionally, you can also customize the appearance of the validation preview by adding a material asset to the `Interactable Hover Mesh Material`.
```

### Snappable Object

1. We need a game object that we want to snap into the snap zone. In this example, we create a cube by right clicking into the *Unity Scene Hierarchy* and select `3D Object > Cube`.
2. Make sure that the game object has a collider component.
3. To make the game object snappable, we need to add the `Snappable Property` component.

[![Create Snappable Cube](../images/snap-zones/create-snappable-cube.gif "Create Snappable Cube")](../images/snap-zones/create-snappable-cube.gif)

### Preview

For our preview, we probably want to use a model of our snappable object. If we don't already have a prefab, we can create one by following these steps:

1. To create a preview model of our snappable game object, we can duplicate it by right-clicking on it and selecting `Duplicate`. Afterward, we delete every component but the `Transform`, `Mesh Filter`, `Mesh Renderer`, or `Skinned Mesh Renderer` available in the clone. We also rename the newly created game object to be easily distinguished.
2. To create the actual prefab, we drag & drop the game object from the *Unity Scene Hierarchy* tab into the desired opened folder of the *Unity Project* tab.

>     > Learn more about [Prefabs](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/Prefabs.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn more about [prefabs](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/Prefabs.html)
```

# Snap Zones

> A snap zone is a pre-defined area defined by a trigger collider where the trainee can "snap" an interactable object by releasing it within that zone. 

Reviewer: pre-defined ... defined

Reviewer 2: Maybe: 
```suggestion
A snap zone is a pre-defined area determined by a trigger collider where the trainee can "snap" an interactable object by releasing it within that zone. 
```

[![Snap Zone](../images/snap-zones/snapzone-in-action.gif "Snap Zone")](../images/snapzones/snapzone.png)

### Snap Zone Configuration

> Snap zones, by default, are not visible to the trainee. However, they are visible for the training designer in the editor window as a volume. 

Reviewer: By default, the trainee cannot see snap zones. However, ...

[![Snap Zone Configuration](../images/snap-zones/snapzone.png "Snap Zone Configuration")](../images/snapzones/snapzone.png)

#### Snap Zone Preview

> It is also possible to configure the snap zone to show a preview version (playmode only) of the desired snap object as follows:

Reviewer: You can

- **Show Highlight Object**: A prefab that contains only the meshes of the preview object.
- **Shown Highlight Object Color**: The color that the preview object will have.

[![Snap Zone Preview](../images/snap-zones/snap-zone-preview.png "Snap Zone Preview")](../images/snapzones/snap-zone-preview.png)

#### Snap Zone Validation Preview

> To provide visual feedback to the trainee when hovering an object near the snap zone, it can be configured as follows:

Reviewer: You can configure a snap zone to...

You can create a snap zone either [automatically](#a-automatically-setup-a-simple-snap-zone) (recommended) or [manually](#b-manually-setup-a-simple-snap-zone).

------

## Automatically setup a simple snap zone

### I. Snappable game object

We need a game object that we want to snap into the snap zone. It needs to have at least one collider component. To make it snappable, we need to add the `Snappable Property` component.

[![Add Snappable Property](../images/snap-zones/box-snappable.png "Add Snappable Property")](../images/snapzones/box-snappable.png)

### II. Create snap zone automatically

To automatically create a matching snap zone, click the `Create Snap Zone` button of the `Snappable Property` in the `Inspector` window of the corresponding snappable game object.

[![Create Snap Zone](../images/snap-zones/automatically-create.gif "Create Snap Zone")](../images/snapzones/automatically-create.gif)

> The snap zone is generated in the same position, rotation, and with the same volume as the snappable property object.

### III. Adjust snap zone (optional)

> You can either change the settings directly in the new snap zone object or change the default settings in the `Snap Zone Settings` window. In order to open the default snap zone settings, **go to the Unity's toolbar** and select: `Innoactive` > `Creator` > `Windows` > `Snap Zone Settings`. All changes are saved automatically, and every snap zone that will be created via the `Create Snap Zone` button afterwards will get the new settings by default. The `Apply settings in current scene` button applies these settings to all snap zones in the current scene even if they were not created automatically.

Reviewer: No need for the emphasis.

[![Create Snap Zone](../images/snap-zones/change-settings.gif "Create Snap Zone")](../images/snapzones/change-settings.gif)

------

## Manually setup a simple snap zone

> In order to properly set up a snap zone we require 3 game objects:

Reviewer: we need

Reviewer 2: I actually prefer require :)

Author: Since apparently more people rather `require`  (this exact same text was already published in the same article for VRTK), I think I´ll leave as it is.

# Snap Zones

> A snap zone is an area defined by a trigger collider where the trainee can "snap" an held an interactable object at the pre-defined position by releasing it. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A snap zone is a pre-defined area defined by a trigger collider where the trainee can "snap" an interactable object by releasing it within that zone. 
```

[![Snap Zone](../images/snap-zones/snapzone-in-action.gif "Snap Zone")](../images/snapzones/snapzone.png)

### Snap Zone Configuration

Snap zones, by default, are not visible to the trainee. However, they are visible for the training designer in the editor window as a volume. 

In order to provide a visual feedback to the trainee when the trainee hovers a snap zone with an interactable object, the snap zone can be configured as follows:

> 

Author: The first gif shows exactly how it looks like in runtime: [Snap Zones](https://github.com/Innoactive/Creator/blob/docu/snap-zone/.Documentation/articles/innoactive-creator/snapzones.md).

I think it is a good idea to show the differences.

The hover mesh shows a validation preview when a snappable object is hovering the snap zone.
The highlight object is shown to draw a volume in the snap zone when there is nothing snapped or hovering it.

Naming is very odd, it is a combination between Unity XR and VRTK names 🙁

- **Show Interactable Hover Meshes**: If this option is enabled the snap zone will show a preview version of the snappable object.
- **Interactable Hover Mesh Material**: The material that the preview object will have when a valid snappable object interacts with the snap zone.

> It is also possible to configure the snap zone to show a preview version (playmode only) of the desired object to be snap in them as follows:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is also possible to configure the snap zone to show a preview version (playmode only) of the desired snappable object as follows:
```

You can create a snap zone either [automatically](#a-automatically-setup-a-simple-snap-zone) (recommended) or [manually](#b-manually-setup-a-simple-snap-zone).

------

## Automatically setup a simple snap zone

### I. Snappable game object

We need a game object that we want to snap into the snap zone. It needs to have at least one collider component. To make it snappable, we need to add the `Snappable Property` component.

[![Add Snappable Property](../images/snap-zones/box-snappable.png "Add Snappable Property")](../images/snapzones/box-snappable.png)

### II. Create snap zone automatically

To automatically create a matching snap zone, click the `Create Snap Zone` button of the `Snappable Property` in the `Inspector` window of the corresponding snappable game object.

[![Create Snap Zone](../images/snap-zones/automatically-create.gif "Create Snap Zone")](../images/snapzones/automatically-create.gif)

> The snap zone is generated in the same position, rotation, and with the same volume as the snappable property object.

### III. Adjust snap zone (optional)

> You can either change the settings directly in the new snap zone object or change the default settings in the `Snap Zone Settings` window. In order to open the default snap zone settings, go to the Unity's toolbar and select: `Innoactive` > `Creator` > `Windows` > `Snap Zone Settings`. All changes are saved automatically, and every snap zone that will be created via the `Create Snap Zone` button afterward will get the new settings by default. The `Apply settings in current scene` button applies these settings to all snap zones in the current scene even if they were not created automatically.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can either change the settings directly in the new snap zone object or change the default settings in the `Snap Zone Settings` window. In order to open the default snap zone settings, go to the Unity's toolbar and select: `Innoactive` > `Creator` > `Windows` > `Snap Zone Settings`. All changes are saved automatically, and every snap zone that will be created via the `Create Snap Zone` button afterwards will get the new settings by default. The `Apply settings in current scene` button applies these settings to all snap zones in the current scene even if they were not created automatically.
```

Author: What is the difference? 🤔

Reviewer 3: Haha :D interesting

A missing s in "afterwards"

[![Create Snap Zone](../images/snap-zones/change-settings.gif "Create Snap Zone")](../images/snapzones/change-settings.gif)

------

## Manually setup a simple snap zone

In order to properly set up a snap zone we require 3 game objects:

- [**Snap Zone**](#snap-zone): The object that will act as snap zone.
- [**Snappable Object**](#snappable-object): The object that we want to be snapped into the snap zone.

> - [**Preview**](#preview): The object that will be shown as preview object on the snap zone (Optional).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [**Preview**](#preview): The object that will be shown as preview object on the snap zone (optional).
```

> > By default, a snap zone can interact with any interactable object, to change this behavior (for example, making a snap zone to only accept one type of object), the `Interaction Layer Mask` must be changed in both, the snap zone and interactable object. 

Author: These are settings from the XR interaction plugin, I linked this:

https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.interaction.toolkit@0.9/api/UnityEngine.XR.Interaction.Toolkit.XRBaseInteractor.html#UnityEngine_XR_Interaction_Toolkit_XRBaseInteractor_InteractionLayerMask

It is the only documentation I found.

[![Create Snap Zone Manually](../images/snap-zones/manually-create-snapzone.gif "Create Snap Zone Manually")](../images/snapzones/manually-create-snapzone.gif)

### Snappable Object

1. We need a game object that we want to snap into the snap zone. In this example, we create a cube by right clicking into the *Unity Scene Hierarchy* and select `3D Object > Cube`.
2. Make sure that the game object has a collider component.
3. To make the game object snappable, we need to add the `Snappable Property` component.

[![Create Snappable Cube](../images/snap-zones/create-snappable-cube.gif "Create Snappable Cube")](../images/snapzones/create-snappable-cube.gif)

### Preview

For our preview, we probably want to use a model of our snappable object. If we don't already have a prefab, we can create one by following these steps:

1. To create a preview model of our snappable game object, we can duplicate it by right-clicking on it and selecting `Duplicate`. Afterward, we delete every component but the `Transform`, `Mesh Filter`, `Mesh Renderer`, or `Skinned Mesh Renderer` available in the clone. We also rename the newly created game object to be easily distinguished.

> 2. To create the actual prefab, we drag & drop the game object from the *Unity Scene Hierarchy* tab into the desired opened folder of the *Unity Project* tab.

Reviewer 3: It is probably enough here to say "Create a prefab of this duplicated object" (and link to the unity docs). But I am okay with both

Reviewer 2: As it's already existent, I would leave it like that ^^

    > Learn more about [Prefabs](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/Prefabs.html)

> 3. Now we can add this prefab to the `Show Highlight Object` property in the `Snap Zone` component of our snap zone game object. To do this, we drag & drop the newly created prefab from the *Unity Project* tab into the *Unity Inspector* tab of our snap zone.

Reviewer 3: Same as above. How to add a prefab in a inspector field is probably not necessary.

> Finally, we should delete the duplicated object from our scene. Since we created a prefab from it, it's no longer necessary.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Finally, we should delete the duplicated object from our scene. Since we created a prefab from it, it is no longer needed.
```
